-[Sandi] This week...
-Oh.
eggs and butter are banished...
[Ruby] Baking’s hard as it is.
[Sandi] For vegan week.
Can we have a kebab week soon?
[Sandi] There’s still pastry to be made...
I don't think that’s soggy bottom.
[Sandi] ...stiff peaks to achieve...
-Good sign.
-Ooh.
[Sandi] ...and delicate sponge to stack.
But one baker’s dreams
are about to topple.
Ooh.
Ooh, it’s... Oh, it’s going.
[theme music playing]
[Noel] I’m a happy cow now.
♪ Because it’s vegan week ♪
♪ There’s no dairy or meat ♪
♪ Why don't you chop up a leek
because it’s vegan week ♪
[Sandi] That is really good.
Did you write it yourself?
It’s a kinda new kind of music.
I call it Moo Wave.
Oh, yeah. That is a really happy cow.
[Noel laughs] Can’t believe we got
Paul and Prue to agree to that.
I know. I feel sorry for Prue actually.
She’s not the back end?
Yeah. And Paul had beans for breakfast.
Not his usual sausage sandwich?
No. It’s vegan week.
Yeah, the cow said.
♪ It’s vegan week
Chop up a leek ♪
[Briony] I genuinely never thought
that I would get Star Baker
so I can go now happy. It’s fine.
[Kim-Joy] Back again, week seven.
Yeah, I can feel the tension.
[Ruby] Paul and Prue
bringing out vegan week on us,
for the first time.
They are a dream, aren’t they?
I had to do, like, Internet searches
this week on vegetables
because, you know,
I just don't know this stuff. [laughs]
Hello, bakers, welcome to the tent.
It’s vegan week.
So no meat, obvs,
but also no eggs or milk or butter
or even honey.
I’ll tell my mate Ralph,
he’ll be well pleased.
-Why? Okay.
-He’s a bee.
[Sandi] Uh, so for your
vegan signature challenge,
the judges would like you
to make eight savoury tartlets
with two different fillings.
So you need four tartlets with one filling
and four with a different one.
Your tarts must be made
with your own variation
of a vegan friendly shortcrust pastry
that the judges would never realise
were vegan.
No problem at all.
You’ve got two hours to complete
your signature challenge.
-On your marks...
-Get set...
Bake.
[Briony] It is weird being in the tent
and there’s no egg.
I would say we’re running around
like headless chickens but... no.
Baking’s hard as it is, let alone, uh,
when it’s vegan.
[Paul] We set this challenge,
basically, because it’s difficult.
Traditionally, you would use butter,
you would use eggs to create
a beautifully short pastry
but that isn’t an option here.
So this is really gonna challenge
the bakers to create flavours,
to create textures.
The most important thing
is that these bakers
deliver on flavour
and we know they can all do that.
Can they do it vegan style?
[Noel] If the bakers
were sticking to convention,
butter would be the key
to perfect shortcrust pastry...
Basically, in a pastry,
you always need some fat.
[Noel] ...but with a butter ban,
a delicate balance of alternatives
is essential to provide rich flavour
and a golden finish.
So olive oil or coconut oil.
Coconut oil resembles butter in many ways.
I really like the flavour of it.
Instead of butter,
I’m just using vegetable shortening.
This is just a little bit of turmeric
and little bit of chilli.
Just have a little bit of kick to it.
I have a bit of vegetable oil.
I also have some vegan margarine,
which have gone in there.
So I’m just bringing it all together now.
This is flour, avocado oil,
I’ve also put some poppy seeds in.
Vegan baking can be as flavoursome
as normal baking
so it’ll be nice to prove
that it can be done.
[Sandi] To prove her point,
Briony’s first savoury tart
will have a rich, creamy filling
made with vegan goats’ cheese
and oat cream.
While her second celebrates root veg
in a rosette sweetened with apple.
These tartlets are beginning to sound
a little bit like dessert
rather than savoury.
Oh, well it’s got the celeriac
and the sweet potato.
It’s got mixed spice in as well.
-So, no, it is, you know...
-Savoury.
It is savoury but it does,
sort of, have a sweeter taste.
[Noel] But Briony’s enthusiasm
for vegan baking
isn’t shared with one baker.
I’m not really into vegan week.
It isn’t my thing.
Every meal I have contains meat.
Can we have a kebab week soon?
[Noel] Despite his misgivings,
Jon’s given himself a lot to do.
Making from scratch falafel,
hummus, purple mash potato,
sautéed and baked mushrooms,
not forgetting his vegan pastry.
-Okay, so you’re making pastry...
-Yeah.
and then you’re making
various vegan little dishes
-and plonking them one by one.
-Yeah.
Okey dokey. Well, I mean,
you’re certainly having a go.
You’re doing a bit of everything.
I’m making a tart for the summer
and a tart for the winter.
The tart for the summer is ratatouille.
Just reminds me of home really.
Hopefully today we can prove that,
no, vegan is not boring.
[Sandi] Manon’s winter tart with flavours
taken from her flatmate’s
favourite vegetarian pie,
will be a luxurious chestnut
and mushroom filling.
So I wanna talk to you, French person...
Yes.
...with no access to butter
or cream or milk or eggs...
-I’m surviving.
-You’re surviving.
These pastry cases,
I’m going to put in the fridge to chill.
[Sandi] If dough isn’t chilled
as with non-vegan pastry,
the results will be greasy and misshapen.
[Briony] Whatever you use instead
of butter it still needs to be cold.
The theory’s still the same.
Onto the filling.
Chopper’s out. Chopper’s ready to go.
What is he doing?
[Rahul] So the first filling
is called posto,
which is a very traditional
Bengali food item.
Like, something between pesto and hummus.
And then it’s gonna be topped
with some roasted vegetable rosettes.
[Noel] Rahul’s happy sticking to flavours
from home with his other filling,
inspired by the chickpea based
Indian street food dish ghugni chaat.
You seem, uh, quite positive this week.
I’m not sure it’s positive.
It’s just, like, counting my final days.
Let's not go that far.
It’s not positive but it’s not negative.
-It’s a step in the right direction.
-I don't know.
By the end, you’re gonna be,
sort of, dancing around the tent
with gay abandon. No?
Good luck with that.
[laughs]
I’m caramelising the onions with prosecco.
It’s really nice actually.
It’s really tasty.
I’m making my falafel.
I’ve blitzed it down.
Still a little bit of texture to it,
which is what I’m looking for.
So hopefully these will crisp up
nicely in the fryer.
[Ruby] I have been testing these out
on my cousin and my sister.
They are both vegetarian
and they would love to go vegan,
so the last time I made them
I had a soggy bottom on my tart,
so they didn't eat them.
[Sandi] If she manages
to perfect her vegan pastry,
Ruby’s planning fillings
using butternut squash
as well as greens cooked
in a dairy free cheesy sauce,
given its flavour
with powdered nutritional yeast.
I’ve eaten yeast.
-[Ruby] Right.
-Doesn't taste anything like cheese.
Well, have you eaten nutritional yeast?
It’s, um, interesting.
I mean, I wouldn't eat it
just like this but...
-No. Can I smell it?
-Yeah, of course you can.
-[Prue] Oh, it’s quite nice.
-Yeah.
-It gives it a not a bad flavour.
-I’m okay, thanks.
I’m trying to give it up.
It’s slightly parmesan-ey.
-Yes.
-Okay.
-Well, good luck.
-Thank you very much.
-Thank you.
[Noel] To create a creamy texture
for her fillings,
Kim-Joy is turning to tofu.
[Kim-Joy] I’m doing a tofu kind of quiche.
It’s like bean curd, isn’t it?
What is it? [laughs]
Yeah, I love tofu.
It’s like one of my favourite things.
Just a block of tofu and some soy sauce.
[Noel] Kim-Joy’s also using tofu
in her second tart
to create vegan mascarpone,
finished with an image
of a star of a previous squirrel,
complete with nuts.
[Kim-Joy] You know, squirrels are cool.
Yeah, I wouldn't say I’m an animal person.
I haven’t grown up
around animals or anything
and I’m scared of a lot of animals really.
[Sandi] Pastry chilled
and with the clock ticking,
the next step is essential
if the tarts are to impress Prue and Paul.
[Manon] If you don't want
to have a soggy bottom,
which I had last week,
we are blind baking today.
[Ruby] You can either
put some baking beans
or rice or something just to hold it down.
Whoops.
[Briony] Right, so I’ll put them in
at 180 for ten minutes.
There you go. Blind baking.
I’ll put them on for ten minutes to start.
[Noel] As blind baking begins...
[Jon] I think I’m gonna
run out of time today.
[Noel] ...Jon’s work is piling up.
[Jon] I’ve let the pastry chill
and rest in the fridge
and now I’m just rolling it out.
So I’m about 15 behind at the moment.
Bakers, you are halfway through.
You have one hour left.
Think you’re treating the whole day
as a bit too much of a holiday.
It’s vegan week.
Who doesn't want to relax?
Yeah, that’s fair enough.
-Drink?
-Thanks.
-Neat absinthe.
-[coughs] Wow.
Oh.
So I’m making a vegan béchamel.
This is cashew milk.
I feel like it’s the closest consistency
and taste to milk.
[Ruby] This is my
roasted butternut squash.
I’ve snuck in some chilli flakes
but maybe I'll just add in a touch more.
I want it to be punchy.
Are you running out of time?
Do you want me to freeze time for you?
Oh, if you could?
Could you do that for me?
I can do that. I’m a time lord.
Could you reset the clock or something
that they’re using.
You can do this.
[exhales]
[Rahul] Now I need
to start making the curry,
called Kubani, which is chickpea curry.
-[Ruby] Something smells so good.
-Sorry.
-[Noel] What’s this mound?
-Mound? Leave the mound alone.
What’s the mound doing? Is it resting?
It’s just chilling.
It’s like a creature. If you’re a vegan,
your mouth will be watering.
I’m just taking out the beans.
[Briony] Ah. Oh, no.
Beans everywhere. So hot.
[Rahul] Doesn't really look that good
to be honest.
I can’t tell why.
I just have a feeling it looks funny.
[Kim-Joy] They look okay.
They’ve shrunk back a little bit more
than they would at home.
[Ruby] I’m going back in.
This is the second stage
of my blind baking.
So now this will help dry out the bottom,
hopefully, now that I’ve removed
the baking beans.
They are going in for, like,
another eight minutes.
How long we got left?
Just need to fry my falafel.
Just got some just gone in the fryer now.
They seem to be holding.
I’m making my hummus now.
This is basically plum chutney.
This is tamarind paste.
Like, a tiny bit.
It’s a very tart flavour.
[Kim-Joy] This is for the tofu part.
Just add Indian black salt.
It smells, like, you know, like, sulphur.
[laughs]
Um, yeah. Gives sort of an eggyness.
Bakers, you have half an hour,
just half an hour.
Okay. No, that’s mine.
Straight through.
Too hot.
So there is a bit of shrinkage.
I hope that’s cooked.
So that’s looking okay.
I think they have a bit of colour.
I don't think that’s soggy bottom.
[Kim-Joy] They’re nicely brown.
The only problem is,
like, they’re not so even.
I’m just going to put
the fillings in next.
Trying to make a vegan tart look pretty.
Basically, I feel they would say,
ah, it’s a bit simple
but French food is simple, right?
And it’s delicious.
[Ruby] Who would have thought, eh?
You could get a cheese flavour
without actual cheese.
I am pleasantly surprised.
[Briony] I’m just popping in the filling,
which is the caramelised onion
and then in the bottom is, like,
a bit of the goats’ cheese alternative.
[Rahul] This is the plum chutney
I made earlier going in now.
This is the Kubani
that’s going to go on the top.
What are these little guys?
These are mushrooms,
chestnuts and béchamel...
-Wow.
-little tarts.
I like those little trays.
They’re like little mouse beds.
Little mice beds, yeah.
Little bed for mice.
Right, these are going back in.
[Briony] And back in the oven.
Those will go in probably
until a few minutes before the end.
Just a little bit more.
Bye-bye. [laughs]
Looking okay actually.
Not too bad,
but I’m really rushing it today.
I think I’ve done a few too many elements.
I don't know
what’s happened to my filling.
I thought I’d done a lot more than that.
It’s supposed to be quite filled out.
I’ve literally run out of filling.
I can imagine this is going to be good
for you, vegan week, no?
Hopefully, yeah. I feel like everyone
keeps saying that to me.
You look like you might know your way
around a vegan restaurant.
-But you’re not a vegan, are you?
-No.
No, but you just have that air about you.
Yeah.
[Jon] I don't know whether you can put
hummus back in the oven
but we’ll soon find out, won’t we?
I really don't think I’ll be getting
Star Baker this week.
Purple mashed potato.
[Noel] Bakers, you have 15 minutes left.
Just 15 minutes remaining.
[Jon] Dropped them on the floor.
These are not even bloody cooked.
Just leave them in the oven
for as long as I can go.
[Ruby] Tarty.
[beeping]
Good. I wanna get them out the tins
but they’re just too hot
to handle at the moment.
Ow. Ow. Ow.
[Briony] Ah, no, we can't do that.
Think I may have burnt my fingers.
Now, we just making sure
that they’re looking good.
[Ruby] Let’s think about
how I am going to decorate.
[Rahul] Just a little bit of yoghurt.
-They look amazing.
-Thanks, mate.
How long have we got?
[Noel] Bakers, you have five minutes left.
Five minutes.
Damn it.
Okay, I need to start assembling now.
It is going to be really rushed.
Right, coming out now
whether it’s cooked or not.
It’s made of acetate so it’s, like,
an invisible squirrel.
You don't taste the paprika too much.
[Rahul] Just a little bit of
chopped coriander and chopped onion.
How to make something pretty.
Buy a stamp and put it on top.
[Ruby] I’m just going to blowtorch them.
I didn't really think about this.
In my head, it seemed like a great idea,
but of course, the green stuff’s burning.
[Jon] Pastry case is not cooked.
What’s the point of making them
look pretty if they’re inedible?
That’s not done very well
but with all the others it will look okay.
He’s holding a little nut.
Bakers, you have one minute.
Just one minute.
One minute?
One vegan minute.
Right, bakers, your time is up.
That is the end
of your first vegan challenge.
Oh. Whatever.
I don't know what happened.
Just absolutely lost time.
I love the colour though.
-It’s so beautiful.
-Oh, thank you.
Give me a plus point.
[Manon] Yes. Yes.
[Sandi] The bakers’ savoury vegan tartlets
now face the judgement of Paul and Prue.
-Hello.
-Hello, Manon.
-Hi, Manon.
-Hello.
[Manon] So we have the summer tartlet,
which is ratatouille
and then we have the winter tartlet,
which is a vegan béchamel
with chestnut mushrooms and chestnuts.
[Paul] It does look very attractive.
Pastry looks nice and even.
It’s well baked all the way through.
It’s nice.
Cuts beautifully through.
-It’s very mild...
-[Manon] Hmm-mm, yeah.
but it is very delicious.
[Paul] Have you got coconut in there?
Hmm-mm. In the pastry.
Coconut really works, doesn't it?
-[Prue] That is excellent.
-[Paul] A very good pastry.
-I’m glad.
-[Paul] Okay.
[Paul] Let’s look at this ratatouille one.
[Manon] Yes.
Mm. It certainly tastes like
the south of France.
Pastry’s a bit hard
but it’s good and it’s holding its shape.
Overall, I think you’ve done
a very decent job.
-Thank you very much.
-Thank you.
[Paul] Consistent in colour.
Shapes are identical,
which is a good start.
Yeah.
[Prue] How did you get on
with the cheese mixture,
-‘cause you put in that nutritional yeast?
-Yes.
It tasted good.
Fingers crossed it comes across well.
Well, I can taste the broccoli
and I can taste the, um,
broccoli.
[laughs]
-Bit underwhelmed actually.
-Right, okay.
[Paul] I was expecting it to have
more flavour in there.
-Right, okay.
-I mean, the pastry’s nice and thin.
-[Ruby] Yeah.
-It’s crisp
but the only thing you can really taste
is the broccoli and a bit of chilli...
-Okay.
-...at the back of your throat.
-Let’s have a go at the other one.
-Okay.
[Paul] One thing that winds me up,
green on the top of tomato.
I just thought it looked better, you know.
[Prue] It looks really nice
without them anyway.
Yeah.
Hmm. Quite sweet.
And chilli.
Just a little bit.
[laughs] I think a bit more
than a little bit.
I honestly... I only put in just a touch.
I was, like,
I don't want to go in too much.
[Paul] I think overall I get the sage.
-Yeah.
-I get that bit of heat and then
-nothing much else.
-Okay.
That’s fine.
[Rahul] This one is like a pesto.
It’s just garlic, coriander leaf,
cashew nut and poppy seed paste.
Lovely pastry. Very good flavours.
[Paul] I wouldn't have put
that much filling in.
Maybe even half
that would have been plenty.
Okay, let’s try this one now shall we?
[Ruby] This one is a ghugni chaat,
which is chickpea curry
and underneath there is a plum chutney
and caramelised onions.
[Prue] You can see the pastry is crumbly
but it’s holding together,
which is really the difficult thing.
[Rahul] Thank you.
Fantastic.
Poetry.
Thank you.
-[Noel] "Poetry"?
-It is beautiful.
Wow. Poetry.
Mm.
It’s so delicate.
The pastry melts in the mouth.
Crispy. And a little hint of spice
in there as well.
But the filling with the chickpea
is fantastic.
-Very clever.
-Who would have thought that was vegan?
It’s almost buttery. It’s so delicious.
-It is. Thank you, Rahul.
-Thank you.
-Thanks a lot. Thank you.
-[whispering] She said, "Poetry".
You have some.
Rahul, do... do a dance or something.
Go on.
Rahul. Rahul.
-[Paul] Just feels a bit flexible.
-Oh.
-Flexible?
-Yeah.
Flexible pastry.
[Paul] I’m thinking rubbery pastry.
-Oh, no.
-[Noel] Flexible tartlets.
[Paul] Looks like it’s been overworked.
It’s so weird, the veg on the top is veg
but then you’ve got this apple underneath,
which makes it sweet,
so no matter what you put on the top,
-the apple will always win.
-Okay.
[Prue] It’s an apple pie.
Dollop of crème fraiche
and it would be delicious.
Oh... sorry.
[Paul] This looks better.
This is the poppy seed.
-[Prue] Gives it a bit of colour too.
-Yeah, it does.
Very nice and thin pastry.
I mean, that’s amazing.
The onions are the sort
of the ones you put on a hot dog.
Right.
But the overall flavour
actually is all right.
-Okay.
-I quite like the flavour.
I think the flavour’s lovely.
I think there’s too much onion.
Okay. Can I ask about the rubbery
on the flexible?
Was it rubbery or was it okay?
Actually, the pastry on that
was all right.
Okay. Good.
Were your flexible alarm bells ringing?
Thank you.
[Paul] Where’s the rest of it?
Uh, I ran out of filling and I drastically
ran out of time as well.
[Paul] I can see that.
[Jon] Quite unfinished.
[Prue] It’s a bit undercooked under there.
Yes.
Okay, let’s have a look.
They are a little bit untidy
because they’re not full
and maybe you chose the wrong size.
[Prue] They do look a bit of a mess.
[Paul laughs]
[Prue] It’s a bit gluey.
It is very rubbery, the pastry.
It’s the flavour of the tomatoes
I don't particularly like,
-it’s very artificial.
-It’s just too heavy.
[Paul] It’s not good.
Let’s have a look at the falafel.
Base isn’t too bad.
[Prue] Again, it doesn't look
wonderfully attractive, does it?
I quite like the flavour of the falafel.
The pastry’s still a little bit rubbery.
The potato adding to it doesn't really
bring a lot, just a little bit of colour.
It’s not bad. It’s all right, you know.
Both the flavours are good but too strong.
But also the pastry’s very pale
and it’s really untidy.
This has caught you out a little bit.
It’s not your thing, is it?
It’s not my thing at all.
I will admit to that.
[Paul] It’s very, uh, neat.
Very artistic. Baked well.
[Prue] Nice colour.
It’s quite nice the, um, layers.
The coconut pastry.
It’s amazing.
I think the flavour’s are great.
You’ve got the cooling that comes
from the tofu before you hit the onion.
It’s absolutely delicious.
I’d never have said
that would have gone together.
Yeah, I like that one.
Ah, thank you.
[Paul] Remind me of this one again?
Um, so that’s got tofu, broccoli,
onion, the tomato on top.
It’s got a bit of Indian black salt
for the eggyness.
That’s delicious.
The balance of flavour is very good.
Again, the tofu is bringing
that little bit of
coolness to it
and the pastry’s flaky, it’s buttery.
-Thank you.
-Very good job on both of them.
-Very good job. Looks good.
-Thank you.
No, uh...
On vegan week?
Go on, go on, go on.
That’s really good. Well done.
Thank you. I can’t believe that.
It’s good. If anyone was gonna pull off
vegan week, it was you.
Oh.
Oh, my gosh.
I did not think I would get a handshake.
Its more than relief after that.
It’s extreme joy. [laughs]
[Jon] The vegan gods got to me.
They attacked me.
But I’m still smiling.
They were underwhelmed.
I was underwhelmed.
You’ve just got to kind of
pick yourself up and carry on.
[Noel] The bakers were able to practice
for their signature challenge
but nothing can prepare them
for what lies ahead
in our first ever vegan technical.
Hi, bakers. Welcome back
to your technical challenge,
which today has been set for you by Prue.
Prue, any advice?
Trust me,
trust yourselves and it will work.
[Sandi] Ah, a sort of trust exercise.
Right, off you two go.
[Noel] So for your
technical challenge today,
Prue would love you to make
a vegan tropical fruit pavlova.
[Sandi] The judges will be looking for two
perfectly piped vegan meringue discs.
-No egg whites.
-Yeah.
Sandwiched and topped with
coconut pastry cream and tropical fruit.
The meringue must be crispy on the outside
but also kind of marshmallow-ey
on the inside.
Ah, lovely.
You’ve got two and a half hours
to complete this challenge.
-On your marks...
-Get set...
Bake!
[Manon] Okay, we’re in business.
[Jon] I’ve made a pavlova.
Never made a vegan pavlova.
Little bit out of my comfort zone
with this, but there we go.
[Sandi] To make their vegan meringue,
the bakers will need to use aquafaba
instead of egg whites.
Oh.
[Sandi] Aquafaba is the preserved liquid
of cooked chickpeas.
[Briony] Tried to make meringue
out of aquafaba before
but it didn't go very well.
Prue, a vegan pavlova?
-Yeah.
-How does that work then?
Well, you can’t use any egg whites
so they’ve been given aquafaba.
What can go wrong?
[Prue] It actually works like meringue
but takes longer to whisk it
to a stiff peak.
The other great difference between this
and egg white based meringue
is that this is much more fragile.
It actually cuts a little bit
like a traditional meringue.
Nice and light.
[Paul] Right.
The meringue is different.
It’s very fragile.
[Paul] Melts in the mouth.
The overall texture and taste is gorgeous.
Nice challenge, Prue.
Let’s hope they rise to it.
Okay. Dah, dah, dah, dah, dah, dah.
"First stage is whisk the aquafaba,
medium speed, until foaming."
I’m sure it’s gonna taste everything
but chickpea.
Chickpea juice pavlova?
[indistinct]
[Noel] I like chickpeas
in their own right...
Yeah. Well, then...
...but when they pretend
to be meringue, I’m not sure.
[Ruby] I find it amazing
that someone sat there and thought,
I’m gonna whisk the hell
out of some chickpea juice today.
[Rahul] I have never tried it before
so I’m not sure yet.
"Increase the speed to high
and whisk to stiff peaks."
[Briony] I’ve just added the sugar
one tablespoon at a time.
I don't know enough about it to know
whether you can over or under whisk it,
like eggs.
When you bring in
a normal meringue stiff peaks,
you can tip the bowl over your head.
Essentially, you should be able
to do the same with the aquafaba.
That’s meringue consistency.
I’m pretty happy.
It’s quite thick and glossy.
It is peaked but it was, like,
peakier before.
So I don't know if I overdid it a bit?
It’s holding its shape.
Good sign.
I’m gonna do it again.
It won't take too long.
"Then you have to spoon the mixture
into a large piping bag
fitted with the star nozzle
and pipe two 20 centimetre discs
with a decorative edge."
Right, let’s see what this pipe’s like.
Doesn't look like bean water at all.
[Manon] Um...
Yeah, it seems all right.
It could maybe be a bit stiffer
but I think that's the thing
with aquafaba.
It feels pretty much the same
if I’m being honest,
as a normal meringue.
I don't really know
what do to with the edges.
Not the easiest stuff to work with.
You know what?
Who doesn't like a little bit of spikey.
[Kim-Joy] That’ll do.
I just want to pipe it now.
I just can’t do technicals.
I really hate it.
Okay. Now we’re gonna put it in the oven.
The instructions say,
"Bake till crisp and dry
and remove from the oven
and dry it completely."
Meringue needs to cook for a long time
on a low heat.
Definitely baking it
for about an hour, minimum.
I’m putting it for one hour.
It might even take longer.
My meringues for the aquafaba,
I do for 75 minutes.
They want it crispy on the outside
and soft in the middle.
[Kim-Joy] I don't actually know how long
to bake a vegan pavlova for.
It's the same
as a normal meringue I think.
Um, I’m just gonna follow
what everyone else does.
I think it’s a pretty tough
challenge they've done.
[Sandi] You’ve had one hour.
You’ve got an hour and a half.
That’s a fact.
[Briony] "Five.
Make the coconut pastry cream."
I’ve not made vegan coconut pastry cream
before, I have to say. This is a new one.
There’s no instruction
on how to make the pastry cream.
It just says, "Make it."
How should I do this?
I’m gonna follow what we do
when we do a crème pâtissière.
[Noel] For this vegan pastry cream recipe,
the rich taste
traditionally provided by eggs
comes from coconut milk
and its thickness from corn flour.
"Bring this to the boil. Give it a whisk.
Add your sugar. Mix that in."
Flavours. You always smash ‘em
with the flavours, don't you?
Yeah, not so much today, though.
Come on, use the force now. Yeah?
-Yeah. The force is strong with this one.
-Yeah.
-Punch Paul in the face with flavours.
-Yeah, I will.
[Rahul] I don't think it can go
any thicker, to be honest with you.
"Stir in the desiccated coconut."
[Manon] Like, when you do a custard.
Keep on stirring.
The pastry cream kind of, um,
slightly, weird.
"Cool and chill."
Bakers, you have half an hour left.
[Ruby] Oh, what are we doing?
[Briony] Feels nice and firm.
It’s getting a bit there on the outside
but it’s not actually crisp yet.
Should I get it out? I don't know.
[Manon] We have two and a half hours
and it’s not for nothing.
So, you know what? The longer
I can leave my meringue inside.
I think I have to switch it off now
otherwise it’s not going
to get cooled and cooked.
I might just turn the oven off
and let it dry out in there.
I’m gonna get this out I think.
I’m gonna wait
until it cools a little bit more.
Turn it out. [whistles] Pull it in nicely.
Okay.
[gasps]
Okay, that doesn't look very good,
does it?
Gotta put that back in.
I don't really know how long
it’s been in the oven.
Maybe it needs a bit more crisping.
Okay, what am I doing?
I need to melt some white chocolate.
It tastes like normal chocolate.
Obviously you need enough time
at the end to do...
Chill and put the chocolate and build it.
I’m a bit worried, actually,
because it has to set and it’s quite hot.
So I think I have to work
pretty faster now.
Okay, I think I’m gonna take them out
because you want it to be chewy.
It’s a pavlova.
I’m just going to take it out now.
Whatever happens, happens.
I think that’s pretty good.
Could be probably more neater
on the piping.
I’m really scared about
turning it upside down.
Ah.
Just grab this out.
[Briony] It’s really so delicate.
Ooh. I’m a bit scared
about putting the chocolate on.
Okay. It is fragile
but that’s what it’s meant
to be like, isn’t it?
I’m trying to use the chocolate
to fill some of the gaps.
Don't know whether to put that
in the freezer.
God, this is terrifying.
I feel like they are dissolving almost.
Bakers, you have 15 minutes.
15 vegan minutes.
[Ruby] I better get a wiggle on.
I’m gonna finish the cream.
"Beat the coconut yoghurt
and passion fruit seeds
into set pastry cream."
Mm. Gloop.
[Manon] That’s gonna be very interesting.
And then pass through a sieve.
[Rahul] This actually
looks like pastry cream.
[Ruby] I mean that does taste delicious.
I have to take them out now.
I don't have time otherwise.
Assembly time.
"Place one of the meringue shells
base side down on the cake stand
and spread over half of the pastry cream."
Mine looks really bad
compared to everybody’s else’s.
Just wondering how I’m gonna decorate this
‘cause decorating’s not my thing.
[Manon] I’m gonna try to make
some little stars.
♪ I don't know what I’m doing ♪
"Top with fruits and toasted coconuts."
Going in with some passion fruit.
[Jon] Yeah, I’m gonna cover up
my dodgy meringue.
Pavlova is all about
mixing the fruits together.
There isn’t really method.
Just looks really old school.
"Close the other meringue on top
and repeat."
Mine is very sad looking.
Is that all of it?
Please say I’ve got enough?
Ah!
Bakers, your time is up.
[Kim-Joy] Oh, dear.
Please place your pavlovas
behind your photographs
on the gingham tablecloth.
You totally nailed that.
I did nail that.
[Sandi] Prue and Paul are looking
for two decoratively piped discs
of vegan meringue
filled and topped with
coconut pastry cream and tropical fruit.
They have no idea
whose vegan pavlovas are whose.
Okay, let’s start with this one.
[Prue] We did ask for decorative meringue.
They’re just flat discs.
[Paul] There’s been an issue,
whether it broke up
when they were moving it,
you know, 'cause it is quite delicate.
-Let’s have a look at it shall we?
-[Prue] Yeah.
[Paul] The meringue’s not that bad.
I just think they weren’t delicate enough
when they were moving it off the paper.
[Prue] The fruit,
doesn't look quite so generous.
-[Paul] Pavlova’s indulgent...
-Yeah.
[Paul] ...and that doesn't look indulgent.
[Prue] Right,
that is very impressive piping,
and the meringue was absolutely
properly whipped.
[Paul] The decoration’s indulgent.
It’s that pile, isn’t it?
Marshmallow-ey inside.
Crispy on the outside. I like that one.
A lot of textures going on in that one.
It’s very neat.
Now, this next one again, the--
Lazy with the piping again.
It’s cracked a bit there.
There is definition there though.
[Prue] Pastry cream
is absolutely delicious.
It’s very runny though.
It does mean the meringue will soften.
Okay, moving on. Lost a little bit
of definition on the bottom.
[Prue] Yeah. I quite like the way
the baker has thought about making one
bigger than the other.
Meringue’s good. Crispy. Marshmallow-ey.
-I love the definition in this one.
-[Prue] Yeah.
[Paul] Nice and equal. Hardly any cracks.
Let’s have a look in this.
The meringue’s cooked well.
It is very full. Colourful as well.
Moving onto this last one.
Good attempt at trying to create
something a little bit different
but they’ve lost the definition,
haven’t they?
[Prue] However,
it still looks rather nice.
[Paul] Right.
The meringue’s very good.
It’s actually quite well cooked
all the way through as well.
-It’s nice, isn’t it?
-Very nice.
[Noel] Prue and Paul will now rank
the pavlovas from worst to best.
In sixth place is this one.
-Whose is this?
-Me.
Kim-Joy, it was just a little bit boring
on the piping.
In fifth place is this one.
-Who’s that?
-It's me.
-Briony, it’s all a little bit flat.
-Yeah.
[Sandi] Jon is fourth, Ruby’s third.
So in second place
is this one.
Pretty good actually, Manon.
You managed to create a fantastic bake
on the meringue
-all the way through.
-Thank you.
Which leaves, of course, Rahul.
Thank you.
[Prue] Rahul, your pavlova had everything.
It’s got beautiful definition,
silky smooth pastry cream,
lots of fruit, looks indulgent,
tastes great. Bravo.
-I can’t believe it.
-[Kim-Joy] Why?
[Rahul] This is the first time
I came first in technical.
I mean, I made something and judges
like it, that’s a very good thing.
[Kim-Joy] I just get confused
I think in technicals.
I get all flustered. But I’m trying.
[Jon] I’d have taken fourth in technical
in the first week but not this week.
Fourth is in the middle,
but it’s the bottom half of the middle.
So I’m looking pretty dangerous now.
[Noel] One challenge remains
before Paul and Prue decide
who will make the quarter-final.
[exhales]
Paul, I have to ask you, vegan week?
Was something
you were looking forward to?
Not particularly.
Having said that, and seeing
how the bakers have dealt with it so far,
it is possible to create
some great tasting food.
-Coconut oil seems to be a revelation.
-Vegan... Yeah, it’s delicious
and the coconut oil pastry
was really good.
This is a tricky one.
Overall, I think you’re looking at Manon
and Rahul as potential Star Bakers.
All the others are in a little bit
of trouble going into the showstopper.
I think less so Kim-Joy
because she did so well in the signature.
Is there a Paul Hollywood vegan cookbook?
Nope.
[all laughing]
Hello, bakers. Welcome back to the tent.
For your showstopper challenge today,
the lovely Paul and Prue
would love you to make
a vegan celebration cake
that could be the centrepiece
at a party or a happening
if it’s the '60s.
The judges are looking for an inventive,
visually exciting celebration cake
made from plant based ingredients only.
They can be any shape you like,
so from classically tiered to novelty
but they must be utterly delicious.
You’ve got four hours.
-On your marks...
-Get set...
Bake.
Biggest concern is just making sure
I get everything done in time.
And so, I try and work as fast
as I can right now. Yeah.
Feeling the pressure today, totally.
Didn't do well in signature.
Bottom of the middle of the pack
in technical.
Okay, yes, it’s a vegan cake,
but there shouldn't be any compromise.
[Prue] These are very experienced,
good bakers.
Every one of them will have made
dozens and dozens of excellent cakes.
But they probably will have made them
with eggs and butter.
They have to make the cake
that’s just as tender,
just as beautifully risen
but without them.
So that means you could use
bicarbonate of soda,
a bit of vinegar helps with the rise.
But they have to get it into the oven fast
otherwise those bubbles come and go.
[Paul] We want colour, we want personality
but above all I’d like something
that tastes amazing.
When I come to judging this,
I’m gonna judge it exactly the same
as I would a non-vegan cake.
I expect it to be that good.
[Sandi] Traditionally, in a sponge,
eggs and butter are manipulated
to give flavour, height and texture.
With none in the tent,
it is essential the bakers
find harmony in the alternatives
if they are to produce a flavoursome,
well-structured bake.
The wet ingredients I’m using,
a mixture of oil and dairy-free margarine.
Vegan margarine actually
works surprisingly well.
Like, you can’t really notice
much of a difference.
We have some coconut oil,
then you have some soya milk.
The wet ingredients are coconut milk,
sunflower oil, coconut extract.
[Kim-Joy] It’s difficult
not using eggs and butter.
Like a lot of vegan cakes,
it’s more about speed.
-[Paul] Good morning, Kim-Joy.
-Hello.
So, Kim-Joy, tell us
all about your showstopper?
I am doing, um, a fox-themed
birthday cake for a friend.
"Fox-themed?"
-Fox-themed.
-[Prue] Fox-themed.
[Kim-Joy] He likes foxes
and that’s kinda, like,
you know, people say
their spiritual animal and stuff.
-His spiritual animal’s a fox?
-Yeah.
[Noel] Decorated with her second
woodland creature of the week,
this time made from vanilla biscuits,
Kim-Joy’s two-tiered cake
will be flavoured
with lavender and lemon curd
inspired by her travels.
Those flavours came from
when I went on holiday,
I had a lavender lemon curd ice cream.
And it really was my
favourite ice cream ever.
I just feel like I wanted
to use those flavours.
[Manon] So this is an apple spiced cake.
You know like you do carrot cake?
The carrots will give it the moisture
and the deliciousness.
We’re looking for is kind
of the same texture.
[Ruby] The bottom tier
will be a lemon sponge.
The top tier is a chocolate sponge.
I stupidly thought that
making two different flavours
would be a real good idea.
[Jon] I just basically got
chocolate and orange
to celebrate one of my favourite sitcoms
and the cake is called
"Only Fools eat Horses."
[Sandi] Hoping to salvage his vegan week,
Jon’s take on the Trotters
will be a vegan chocolate fudge cake
with orange curd icing,
topped with a meringue pineapple,
finished with sheepskin buttercream
and a hint of leopard print.
Hopefully, it’ll show Del Boy’s
exquisite taste in a vegan cake.
Can't see Del Boy
having a vegan cake mind.
Okay, so bicarb reacts with vinegar
and give the fluffiness
to the sponginess to the cake.
You need to move quite quick
‘cause you can start hearing it bubble.
It’s not coming together as well
as it did at home as always.
Time to pour it in.
[Kim-Joy] The reaction’s
happening right now.
You want that reaction really in the oven.
Yeah, in.
Uh...
This is going in 160.
Twenty minutes at 180.
Fifteen minutes and then I’ll check 'em.
I’m just hoping they bake okay.
[Briony] So they will go in
for about 45, 50 minutes.
So that’s one big job done.
Hi, Briony.
Okay, Briony, tell us what’s
the whole theme behind your cake?
It’s for my little brother
who turned 30 last year
because he can’t eat dairy
so he eats a lot of vegan food.
And the cake I made him for his birthday
wasn't as pretty or as lovely
as it should have been,
so this is the cake
that I wish I made him.
I mean, it’s a little bit girly
‘cause it’s got roses on it
but I don't think he’d mind.
[Noel] In a nod
to her brother’s love of coffee,
Briony’s making a mocha cake
decorated with hazelnuts,
piped chocolate roses
and laced with fresh raspberries.
You’ve chosen quite a lot of rich things
like the mocha and the chocolate
and the hazelnut.
These are the overriding flavours
and I don't think we’re really
gonna tell much of a difference
between a vegan and a non-vegan.
Well, hopefully. That’s the idea.
[Jon] I’m making my fake buttercream.
Yeah, buttercream
with no butter and no cream.
So it’s just vegetable shortening,
icing sugar.
-What is that made of?
-What do you think it is?
Well, I don't know.
Everything seems to be made of chickpea,
like, literally everything
is made of chickpea.
[Ruby] Literally everything.
No chickpea in this one though.
This is buttercream.
I have used some vegan butter...
-How do you cope with him?
-He’s quieter like that.
So these are all natural colours,
so we have matcha for the green,
turmeric for the yellow,
beetroot powder for the pink.
So these are gonna be
piped buttercream flowers.
[Sandi] Manon’s flowers
will be wrapped around
a three-tiered spiced apple cake.
Each tier will be made up
of three layers of sponge.
Yes. We’re going for a big cake.
[Rahul] I’m concerned about time already.
[exhales]
-Good morning, Rahul.
-Hiya.
What are you doing
for your vegan celebration cake?
This is basically a tribute to my grandma.
My grandfather died in ’84.
In India, quite a lot of time,
when a husband died,
uh, wife give away quite
a lot of different foods,
so my grandmother didn't have eggs or meat
for the rest of her life
after my grandfather died.
So I’ve never seen her eating a cake.
So it is kind of a tribute for her.
[Noel] Rahul’s honouring his grandmother
with two tiers of sandwiched
coconut and chocolate sponges,
decorated with chocolate shards
and soaked in a coconut drizzle.
-It’s a beautiful idea.
-Yeah, thank you.
I’m very close to my grandma.
Yeah, I love my grandmum.
She’s not here any more
but she loved me a lot. I mean, yeah.
[Sandi] Rahul’s not the only one
celebrating cherished memories of family.
This cake is inspired by
and is for my cousin.
This is a really fond memory
that we both have
of a day out with our granddad
when we were really young
and it’s so simple.
It’s just a day that
we had with our granddad
and we ate loads of ice creams
and it seemed like the best day ever.
[Sandi] Ice cream flavours
are at the heart
of Ruby’s celebration cake,
which she’s hoping will keep her
in the tent for another week.
She’s stacking three layers
of chocolate sponge
on top of three layers of lemon,
sandwiched with fresh raspberries
and drizzled in chocolate.
Are you doweling it or...
Yeah, so I have dowels in there
because obviously it’s quite a tall cake,
so I want to make sure
it looks all nice and sturdy.
I don't want any, um, wonky cakes.
Yeah, I’m gonna get them out now I think.
Ta-dah. Good.
They’re looking okay.
There is little cracks on the top
but it’s happened already
so I can’t change it.
Looking cakey. Cracky but cakey.
Yeah, they look good.
They have had a little bit of a rise,
which is what we were looking for.
Yeah, they look good.
Just checking them all.
Being a bit paranoid.
It is baked. And look, it’s really spongy.
It's proper cake.
It holds quite nicely
so it’s quite moist
but it’s not too stodgy.
Quite claggy.
Really don't know what's gone
wrong with those.
[Sandi] Oh, I’m overshooting.
Bakers, you’re halfway through.
You’re halfway...
-Oh, yes, two all.
-Two all.
Right, I can get on with my sugar syrups
and my ganache and a million other things.
Oh.
[Briony] This is my raspberry jam.
Works really nicely ‘cause raspberries
goes well with chocolate.
Raspberries go well with coffee.
They go well with hazelnut.
It goes well with all of it.
[Kim-Joy] It’s a very sharp lemon curd.
I don't know if they’ll like the tartness
or not. I hope they do.
[Noel] When finished,
each cake should demonstrate decorating
techniques fit for a celebration.
[Manon] They don't all
have to be the same.
That’s the beauty of flowers,
you know, they’re never perfect.
Yeah, it’s gonna look so pretty.
[Rahul] I’m just making
the buttercream roses
because roses are favourite flowers
of my grandma.
-Hey, lovely boy.
-Hiya.
If you could sound
a bit more excited when I turn up.
-Sorry?
-No. Okay.
Okay, so now I need to do the biscuits.
Its, like, basically coconut oil and flour
and they’re quite quick to bake.
[Jon] My yellow meringue.
The yellow’s to make it
look like a pineapple.
-I like the smells. What is that, mocha?
-[Briony] Mocha, yeah.
-You know who likes mocha, don't ya?
-Who?
-Paul.
-No way.
Yeah. I often rustle up Paul a mocha.
Do you?
Okay. Fun time.
So this is my favourite moment,
decorating and icing the cake.
[Ruby] I’m drenching
my sponges in a sugar syrup.
It’s a good way to keep your cakes moist.
[Rahul] I think the cake
should be quite moist anyway
but obviously the chocolate doesn’t have
any coconut flavouring in it,
so this is like a sugar water
and coconut extract.
[Briony] I’m putting the jam
in between each layer
and then there'll be ganache
around the outside.
[Jon] I’m just sort of pipping
circles of buttercream around
and then I’m pouring orange curd in
but it’s nowhere near set,
so hopefully the buttercream
will keep it in there.
Buttercream’s a bit
too stiff at the minute.
[Briony] This is a vegan ganache.
So it is vegan dark chocolate
with a coconut cream.
[Kim-Joy] Just gotta get it
nice and smooth as possible.
I’m doing that sort of,
like, semi-naked cake.
I love naked cake.
I think it looks really cool.
[Ruby] That isn’t looking pretty.
It broke when I was icing it.
So I’m just gonna take it off.
I don't know what happens
but I look at you
and I just want to crush these.
Bakers, you have half an hour.
Half an hour.
[Jon] See my artistic skills
coming out now.
I’d love to get the presentation right.
I’m probably the opposite of Kim-Joy.
Yeah, I think I like the decorating.
It’s probably my favourite part of it.
[Briony] Raspberries
on the dark chocolate.
I think they look so pretty.
Everyone’s is looking
really good at the minute.
I really want this one to look good.
It looked really good at home.
Oh, I love that. I want a pair of trousers
made out of that.
[Manon] So I’m gonna start assembling.
Oh.
That’s terrifying.
Okay, which side is the least bad side?
It’s just extremely wonky for some reason.
I’m gonna put all the decoration this way.
[Rahul] I don't know whether I can finish
my decoration or not.
I just need to try. That’s it.
Yeah. Good.
[Ruby] Oh, please.
I’ve got the wonkiest cake going.
I’m so scared that he’s not gonna
be able to sit on top of it.
Bakers, you have 15 minutes. 15 minutes.
[Ruby] Maybe if I have it facing this way
you can’t see a wonk.
[Jon] I’m quite happy
with that actually. [laughs]
That’ll do. That’ll do, Donkey.
[Kim-Joy] Looks fine.
[Briony] Yeah. It looks pretty.
-It looks fantastic.
-Thank you.
[Noel] You’ve got a leaning situation.
Where shall I stand
so that it doesn't tip over?
-B, can you help me put this on?
-Yeah, yeah, yeah.
[Ruby] I’m scared.
You’ve got dowels in there, haven’t you?
-Yeah.
-Yeah, then it’ll be fine.
I don't think that’s gonna... Uh-oh.
[grunts]
Cake stand is Del Boy’s suitcase.
Done what I set out to achieve I think.
Really starting to panic now.
It’s okay, you’re okay, you’re doing good.
Bakers, you only have five minutes left.
[Sandi] Just five minutes.
Right, I’ve got some dowels.
Yeah, it needs to be a bit taller though.
It looks really nice.
-[Jon] There?
-Just a little bit taller, Jon.
-[Briony] Yeah, taller, taller, taller.
-[Ruby] Taller, Jon. Go.
[Noel] Come on, kids.
You can do this, Rahul.
[Ruby] I don't think that’s gonna stay.
It’s literally, like,
caved in at the back.
Bakers, you only have one minute left.
Okay, do you need help?
[Briony] It’s okay, it’s okay.
You’ve got this.
[Jon] Think I may have done Del Boy proud.
He’d try and sell it for a couple
of quid, wouldn't he anyway?
Look at the state of it.
What an absolute state.
It looks terrible.
Melting and breaking from everywhere.
There is it. It’s done.
Oh, that’s it guys. Oh, I’m so wounded.
I’m sorry, bakers, but your time is up.
[Ruby exhales]
[exhales]
Right, bakers, off you go, my lovelies.
That is the end of all
your vegan challenges. Well done.
[Rahul] It just needs to go in the fridge.
Oh, that looks so good.
[Jon] Mine’s bowing out at the bottom now.
Oh, man. That was awful.
What did you use
to stick your cake together?
[Jon] Buttercream mainly.
[Sandi] It might taste amazing.
Oh.
Ooh.
Ooh, it’s... Oh, it’s going, it’s going.
Oh, shit. It’s gonna fall.
-Oh, God.
-No.
I think your cake's just fallen.
-Oh, shit.
-[Ruby] Oh, man.
-Oh, my God.
-[sniffles]
[Sandi] The bakers’
vegan celebration cakes
now face the judgement of Paul and Prue.
Briony, would you like to bring
your showstopper up, please?
Briony, tell us about your showstopper?
So this is my hazelnut mocha vegan cake
with raspberry jam,
chocolate ganache and then
there’s some buttercream roses.
Well, I must say
it looks as neat as a pin.
Thank you.
I do like the look of that.
It’s very elegant.
Solid piece and sits on the plate
without a crumb out of place.
[Prue] Perfect three layers.
Mm.
-[Paul] The raspberry lifts everything...
-Mm.
Because the mocha’s very delicate.
I quite like it. It’s different.
I think you’ve done a good job actually...
-Thank you.
-on flavour, texture,
look. It’s a very nice cake
-Thank you.
-[Prue] Well done, Briony.
It looks a bit sad.
It’s knocked off.
[all laughing]
It’s very, um, crude in its decoration.
[Prue] I quite like the animal print.
It looks like Bet Lynch’s skirt actually.
What’s in it?
[Jon] It’s, uh, chocolate and orange cake
with chocolate sponge,
with orange curd in there
and orange buttercream.
[Prue] Jon, I think your layers
are really good, they’re even.
It’s a bit claggy.
[Paul] I enjoy that flavour.
The orange in there is really nice
and sharp, carries it through.
I mean, it looks hideous,
but the flavour of it is, um, very good.
Thank you. Cheers.
For me, there’s a bit too much orange curd
but I think it’s a good cake.
Thank you.
[Prue] It’s absolutely beautiful.
Very delicately done.
The naked cake is perfect.
When you get it right, Manon,
you really get it right, don't ya?
-Thank you.
-Let’s have a look inside shall we?
Very neat coming out.
[Prue] Looks a bit pudding-ey.
[Paul] It does, doesn't it?
It’s really heavy.
Yeah.
[Prue] Gluey.
It’s not good. Looks great, tastes awful.
Oh, really?
It is like an under-baked cake
and it’s quite rubbery as well, actually.
It’s like it’s been overworked.
It’s been over-mixed.
Apple, I’m certainly not getting.
It’s not a good cake at all.
That’s a shame.
I love the colours.
I think they’re very pretty
and subtle and unusual.
If I was to relate a cake
to anyone in this tent,
I’d certainly relate this cake to you.
The decoration is exquisite.
You’ve gone to the trouble
of making biscuits too.
It’s standing up.
I think it’s a nice looking cake.
Thank you.
-Now, this is lavender sponge?
-Yes.
[Prue] Very good.
Mm.
Quite powerful lavender.
It’s very pudding like, isn’t it?
[Prue] Hmm.
[Paul] But nevertheless,
I think the balance between lavender,
which is very brave of you to do...
-Phew.
-and the lemon,
which is again quite sharp,
works together very well.
Well done. I think
that’s a really nice cake.
-Ah, thank you very much.
-[Prue] Well done, Kim-Joy.
[sighs]
What happened?
When I constructed them,
it was standing okay,
and then I put it in the fridge,
and then I left,
and when I come back it was...
[Paul] Okay, let’s have a look at it.
I might not put the drizzle as well
because I put a coconut drizzle,
which might have actually softened
the whole thing up.
Well, I think I can see your problem.
I think it could be the drizzle.
It’s the drizzle,
it just makes it really soggy, yeah.
It’s weakened the whole thing
and you can see
where it’s compressed in the middle
-and the whole things just given way.
-Collapsed. Yeah.
The chocolate is good. The coconut one
has just been drenched. It’s too much.
It actually tastes
of too much coconut too.
You’re trying too hard
to get too much flavour
into something that was already big.
You had enough flavour in there
without any drizzle.
[Prue] That is a pity.
It’s gonna be a bit difficult
to put the best side forward.
So let’s go that way.
Because it’s a collapsed mess,
it looks... I mean,
it looks like a disaster.
-Yeah.
-Right.
I had to put in quite
a few dowels at the end,
so you’ll probably hit a lot of, uh...
[Paul] Wow.
More dowel than cake.
Yes.
Do you envisage them being eaten together?
-No. Either the chocolate or the lemon.
-Right.
Mm.
I like that.
Lemon-ey. Coconut-ey. Delicious.
Um, I like the lemon cake.
I like the flavour of the raspberries
in there as well
and actually I like the chocolate one too.
They’re actually both very good cakes.
I think you got it the wrong way round.
Yeah.
I think if you’d put the chocolate,
which is a lot more stable
than the lemon...
-Yeah.
-underneath,
it would have been fine.
Yeah, I think the sponge in the lemon one,
it was really soft.
So it was just a, uh,
bad judgment.
I’m scraping at the positives
at the minute.
I’m in very dangerous territory.
Vegan week. I mean, Paul,
you weren’t happy before we started.
How do you feel now?
A bit disappointed with people.
Mainly Manon.
It was an awful cake
and yet it was exquisite to look at.
Okay, so is it going to be
that the look is one thing
but the taste is the paramount thing
because Ruby’s...
Exactly. I would have given Ruby’s
higher marks than Manon’s
because Ruby’s was edible.
It was delicious.
[Paul] But you can’t discount her
from the possibility of leaving us.
At the end of the day, it fell,
and it was her fault.
I think we’ve got a real problem
with the judging.
Coming into the Showstopper,
we’d put Briony, Ruby,
Jon and obviously, you had to put
Kim-Joy in there
because she came last in the technical,
in a little bit of trouble.
Briony’s saved herself
because that cake was pretty good.
The hazelnut, the mocha.
It was a very neat looking cake.
Kim-Joy saved herself and then some.
We put Rahul and Manon up for Star Baker.
But Rahul has had a hideous...
Well, you’d say that
but actually his cake,
the flavour, actually wasn't that bad.
At the same time, I have to put Kim-Joy up
as Star Baker as well.
[Sandi] Her fox cake looked great
so I thought.
-[Paul] Beautiful colours.
-And you know what, the flavour was good.
So I think what you’re looking at, Kim-Joy
and I would say, you have to say Rahul
still up for Star Baker.
And I would say Ruby and Jon...
-Bumping along the bottom.
-Yes.
Well, well done, bakers.
Really successful vegan week.
[Noel] Ironically, the Star Baker
is someone who brought animals
into the tent
but in a whimsical, colourful way.
Star baker this week is Kim-Joy.
Well done.
-Foxy Baker.
-Foxy.
Ah.
Ah, man.
I have to say this gets
tougher and tougher
every week because we are
so fond of all of you
and it is a really a horrible job.
Uh, but I’m afraid the person
who’s going home is...
Jon.
I’m so sorry.
[Jon] Okay.
[Sandi] You did such a great job.
[Jon] Immensely proud
of what I’ve achieved.
To make it past week one,
I was immensely proud.
But to make it to week seven,
absolutely amazing.
-You were brilliant.
-Cheers, anyway.
-It’s been amazing. It really has.
-Oh, Jon.
I am sad to see Jon go.
He’s got such personality.
He’s so different from everybody else.
He’s actually a very good baker
and his flavours are always
very, very good.
-Well done, my darling.
-Thank you.
-Congratulations.
-I really didn't think that would happen.
Star baker of vegan week.
I can’t believe I’m saying those words.
Kim-Joy has done really well
to win Star Baker.
I told ya. I told ya.
Overall, she was certainly
the best on vegan week.
Oh, Ruby, I'm so pleased.
Are they sure? Like, positive?
Vegan week was hard.
Really, really hard.
Group hug.
[Manon] Let’s hug. Well done, everyone.
[Prue] Five left now.
Quarter-final coming up.
I have no idea
who’s going to win this thing.